## Project Motivation

It is estimated that by 2021, the global game industry is expected to exceed 174 billion US dollars. Among them, the mobile game industry accounts for 50% of the global game market. In 2019 alone, approximately 2.4 billion people worldwide were playing mobile games. According to 2019 statistics, games are the third most popular app category, and together with social networking apps, online shopping apps account for 90% of smartphone time spent. In addition, 73% of total app revenue comes from games. Regionally, Asia-Pacific is the largest mobile game market, accounting for 50% of the total ($31.1 billion), followed by North America with about 25% ($15.9 billion). The mobile game industry can be described as the most promising industry under the globalization pattern.

LTV (lifetime value), which means the customer lifetime value, is the sum of all the economic benefits that the company obtains from all user interactions. It is usually used to measure the value generated by corporate customers to the company, and is regarded as an important indicator for whether mobile game companies can achieve high profits and market competitiveness or not.

This topic aims to explore the application of data science in mobile game enterprises. The project will leverage the basics of common machine learning and probabilistic models, and their application in estimating the customer life value (LTV) of mobile game customers, so as to understand the performance & development of enterprises.


## Files & Libraries Description

### Files
#### MobileGame.csv
This is a US-based Mobile Game Company revenue dataset, which contains all cohorts of new installs between 3/1/15 and 10/22/17. The company’s revenue model involves In-app purchases (IAP) and Ads. Here are the attributes in the dataset. 

install_cohort:            7-day installation group 
days_since_install:        number of days since install of the mobile game
revenue:                   revenue generated at the time of (install date + days_since_install)
total_installs: 	         total number of installs in the install cohort
cum_rev:	                 total revenue of installs in the install cohort
arpu:                      average revenue per install in the install cohort


#### Projecting Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) for a Mobile Game Company.ipynb
This is the main Jupyter Notebook analyzing the business questions on CLV for the mobile game company in dataset above. 


### Libraries

#### pandas
is a fast, powerful, flexible and easy to use open source data analysis and manipulation tool, built on top of the Python programming language.

#### matplotlib.pyplot
is a state-based interface to matplotlib. It provides an implicit, MATLAB-like, way of plotting. It also opens figures on your screen, and acts as the figure GUI manager.

#### seaborn
is a Python data visualization library based on matplotlib. It provides a high-level interface for drawing attractive and informative statistical graphics.

#### lifetimes
is a Python library to calculate CLV 

#### sklearn
is a free software machine learning library for the Python programming language.


## Results Summary

The main results & insights of the analysis can be found at the Medium Blog post available here. 


## Acknowledgement 
Thank you Bill Li and Minshen Hao for sharing the dataset in the Analytics in Mobile Gaming workshop of USC Marshall. 
Much appreciation goes to Hariharan S for the Definitive Guide for predicting Customer Lifetime Value: https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2020/10/a-definitive-guide-for-predicting-customer-lifetime-value-clv/.









